README.md, before:

# pack-trace

pack-trace is a pack-level traceability control plane that combines GS1-compliant labeling, Hedera Consensus Service event signing, and Supabase-authenticated dashboards. The day-one implementation ships a production-ready foundation for manufacturing, distribution, dispensing, and auditing teams.

## Highlights

- Hedera Consensus Service message flows with running hash persistence ([docs](https://docs.hedera.com/hedera/sdks-and-apis/sdks/consensus-service/submit-a-message)).
- GS1 DataMatrix encoding for `(01) GTIN`, `(10) LOT`, `(17) EXP` using bwip-js ([guideline](https://www.gs1.org/docs/barcodes/GS1_DataMatrix_Guideline.pdf)).
- Supabase Postgres schema with facility-scoped row-level security ([RLS reference](https://supabase.com/docs/guides/auth/row-level-security)).
- Custody scanner integrates `/api/facilities` directory results for handover selection, removing the need to memorise facility UUIDs.
- Next.js App Router UI with authenticated dashboard, invite and recovery flows, and marketing landing page.

## Architecture

### Frontend
- Next.js App Router ([docs](https://nextjs.org/docs/app)) with Tailwind and shadcn/ui primitives.
- Client-side Supabase browser client for auth interactions.
- Dashboard server components query Supabase directly for stats, recent batches, and custody events.

### Backend
- Route handlers under `app/api/*` apply Supabase service role keys when required, including custody event ingestion (`/api/events`) and facility directory queries (`/api/facilities`).
- Supabase auth cookie middleware guards all private routes except `/`, `/login`, `/auth/*`, and `/verify`.
- Hedera helpers in `lib/hedera` wrap the JavaScript SDK for client creation, topic management, message publishing, and Mirror Node reads.

### Distributed Ledger
- Hedera Consensus Service topic IDs recorded on `batches.topic_id`.
- Custody events store `hcs_tx_id`, optional `hcs_seq_no`, and `hcs_running_hash` for reconciliation against mirror nodes ([topics API](https://docs.hedera.com/hedera/sdks-and-apis/rest-api/topics)).

## Data Model

Defined in `supabase/migrations/000_init.sql`:

- `facilities`: core profile (name, type, country, GS1 company prefix).
- `users`: Supabase-authenticated identities with role (`ADMIN`, `STAFF`, `AUDITOR`) and facility scope.
- `batches`: GTIN, lot, expiry, quantity, current owner facility, label text, Hedera topic, creator.
- `events`: MANUFACTURED/RECEIVED/HANDOVER/DISPENSED/RECALLED entries with Hedera metadata and SHA-256 payload hash.
- `receipts`: pharmacy-issued verification receipts with shortcode and status.

Row-level policies allow auditors full read access while other roles are scoped to their facility through helper functions `get_my_facility()`, `is_admin()`, and `is_auditor()`.

Auth triggers (`public.sync_user_profile`) synchronize `auth.users` changes into `public.users`, normalizing email addresses and keeping display names aligned.

## Hedera Integration

- `lib/hedera/client.ts` – caches a server-side `Client` instance (mainnet/testnet/previewnet) using `HEDERA_OPERATOR_ID` and `HEDERA_OPERATOR_KEY`.
- `lib/hedera/topic.ts` – exposes `createTopic()` and `submitTopicMessage()` with message size validation and transaction metadata.
- `lib/hedera/publisher.ts` – `publishCustodyEvent()` serialises a `CustodyEventPayload`, submits it, and returns the SHA-256 payload hash plus Hedera receipt fields for persistence.
- `lib/hedera/mirror.ts` & `lib/hedera/timeline.ts` – fetch and decode Mirror Node topic messages, returning structured custody timeline entries and `links.next` pagination data.
- Example snippets under `lib/hedera/examples/*` mirror the official Hedera docs for topic creation, message submission, and HTS token setup.

**Publishing an event**

```ts
import { publishCustodyEvent } from "@/lib/hedera";

const result = await publishCustodyEvent({
  payload: {
    v: 1,
    type: "HANDOVER",
    batch: { gtin: "09506000134352", lot: "A123", exp: "2025-12-31" },
    actor: { facilityId: "fac_123", role: "DISTRIBUTOR" },
    to: { facilityId: "fac_987" },
    ts: new Date().toISOString(),
    prev: null,
  },
});

// Persist to Postgres
// result.payloadHash -> events.payload_hash
// result.transactionId -> events.hcs_tx_id
// result.sequenceNumber -> events.hcs_seq_no
// result.runningHash -> events.hcs_running_hash
```

**Reading the custody timeline**

```ts
import { fetchCustodyTimeline } from "@/lib/hedera";

const timeline = await fetchCustodyTimeline(process.env.HEDERA_TOPIC_ID!, {
  limit: 25,
  order: "desc",
});

timeline.entries.forEach((entry) => {
  console.log(entry.sequenceNumber, entry.type, entry.consensusTimestamp);
});
```

## Getting Started

1. **Install dependencies**
   ```bash
   npm install
   ```

2. **Configure environment variables**
   - Copy `.env.example` to `.env.local` and fill in project-specific values.
   - Required keys: `NEXT_PUBLIC_SUPABASE_URL`, `NEXT_PUBLIC_SUPABASE_ANON_KEY`, `SUPABASE_SERVICE_ROLE_KEY`.
   - Optional integrations: Twilio (`TWILIO_ACCOUNT_SID`, `TWILIO_AUTH_TOKEN`, `TWILIO_FROM_NUMBER`) and Africa's Talking (`AT_API_KEY`, `AT_USERNAME`).

3. **Apply database schema**
   - Run the SQL migrations under `supabase/migrations` (`000_init.sql`, `001_add_product_name_to_batches.sql`, etc.) against your Supabase project (`supabase db push` or Supabase Studio SQL editor).

4. **Start the dev server**
   ```bash
   npm run dev
   ```
   Visit `http://localhost:3000` to access the marketing site. Navigate to `/login` to authenticate.

5. **Type safety and linting**
   ```bash
   npm run lint
   npm run typecheck
   ```

## Auth & Routing

- `/login` shares the Supabase password flow with `/auth/login` for compatibility with email links.
- `/auth/*` still hosts Supabase confirm, reset, and update routes required for OTP/password flows.
- Middleware redirects unauthenticated requests to `/login` while letting `/verify` remain public for patient lookups.

## Dashboard Overview

- Stats cards summarise batch, event, and active receipt counts.
- Facility profile section surfaces GS1 prefix, type, and onboarding timestamp.
- Recent batches and custody events lists pull live data subject to RLS filters.
- Quick links point operators toward `/batches/new` when no inventory exists yet.

## Custody Scanner

- `/scan` renders the `ScannerClient`, combining the progressive `useScanner` hook (BarcodeDetector primary, ZXing fallback) with Supabase lookups.
- The facility directory loads from `/api/facilities`, giving operators a searchable destination list with manual overrides for auditors.
- Custody actions invoke `/api/events` to persist `RECEIVED`, `HANDOVER`, and `DISPENSED` hops, returning Hedera metadata and SHA-256 payload hashes for audit surfaces.

## Batch Labeling

- `/batches/new` collects product name, GTIN, lot, expiry, and quantity, validating inputs with `lib/labels/gs1`.
- Live previews render GS1 DataMatrix barcodes via `bwip-js/browser` with download and print actions for production labels.
- Successful submissions persist GTIN-14, lot, expiry, quantity, human-readable label text, and product name to Supabase while scoping ownership to the operator’s facility.

## Scripts

- `npm run dev` – development server.
- `npm run build` – production build.
- `npm start` – start the production server.
- `npm run lint` – eslint quality checks.
- `npm run typecheck` – TypeScript without emit (required before merging).

## Reference Links

- Hedera Consensus Service: [submit a message](https://docs.hedera.com/hedera/sdks-and-apis/sdks/consensus-service/submit-a-message)
- Hedera Mirror Node: [topics REST API](https://docs.hedera.com/hedera/sdks-and-apis/rest-api/topics)
- GS1 DataMatrix guideline: [PDF](https://www.gs1.org/docs/barcodes/GS1_DataMatrix_Guideline.pdf)
- Supabase Next.js quickstart: [guide](https://supabase.com/docs/guides/getting-started/quickstarts/nextjs)

Commit message:

Add repeatable Supabase demo seed workflow and document credentials

README.md, after:

# pack-trace

pack-trace is a pack-level traceability control plane that combines GS1-compliant labeling, Hedera Consensus Service event signing, and Supabase-authenticated dashboards. The day-one implementation ships a production-ready foundation for manufacturing, distribution, dispensing, and auditing teams.

## Highlights

- Hedera Consensus Service message flows with running hash persistence ([docs](https://docs.hedera.com/hedera/sdks-and-apis/sdks/consensus-service/submit-a-message)).
- GS1 DataMatrix encoding for `(01) GTIN`, `(10) LOT`, `(17) EXP` using bwip-js ([guideline](https://www.gs1.org/docs/barcodes/GS1_DataMatrix_Guideline.pdf)).
- Supabase Postgres schema with facility-scoped row-level security ([RLS reference](https://supabase.com/docs/guides/auth/row-level-security)).
- Custody scanner integrates `/api/facilities` directory results for handover selection, removing the need to memorise facility UUIDs.
- Next.js App Router UI with authenticated dashboard, invite and recovery flows, and marketing landing page.

## Architecture

### Frontend
- Next.js App Router ([docs](https://nextjs.org/docs/app)) with Tailwind and shadcn/ui primitives.
- Client-side Supabase browser client for auth interactions.
- Dashboard server components query Supabase directly for stats, recent batches, and custody events.

### Backend
- Route handlers under `app/api/*` apply Supabase service role keys when required, including custody event ingestion (`/api/events`) and facility directory queries (`/api/facilities`).
- Supabase auth cookie middleware guards all private routes except `/`, `/login`, `/auth/*`, and `/verify`.
- Hedera helpers in `lib/hedera` wrap the JavaScript SDK for client creation, topic management, message publishing, and Mirror Node reads.

### Distributed Ledger
- Hedera Consensus Service topic IDs recorded on `batches.topic_id`.
- Custody events store `hcs_tx_id`, optional `hcs_seq_no`, and `hcs_running_hash` for reconciliation against mirror nodes ([topics API](https://docs.hedera.com/hedera/sdks-and-apis/rest-api/topics)).

## Data Model

Defined in `supabase/migrations/000_init.sql`:

- `facilities`: core profile (name, type, country, GS1 company prefix).
- `users`: Supabase-authenticated identities with role (`ADMIN`, `STAFF`, `AUDITOR`) and facility scope.
- `batches`: GTIN, lot, expiry, quantity, current owner facility, label text, Hedera topic, creator.
- `events`: MANUFACTURED/RECEIVED/HANDOVER/DISPENSED/RECALLED entries with Hedera metadata and SHA-256 payload hash.
- `receipts`: pharmacy-issued verification receipts with shortcode and status.

Row-level policies allow auditors full read access while other roles are scoped to their facility through helper functions `get_my_facility()`, `is_admin()`, and `is_auditor()`.

Auth triggers (`public.sync_user_profile`) synchronize `auth.users` changes into `public.users`, normalizing email addresses and keeping display names aligned.

## Hedera Integration

- `lib/hedera/client.ts` – caches a server-side `Client` instance (mainnet/testnet/previewnet) using `HEDERA_OPERATOR_ID` and `HEDERA_OPERATOR_KEY`.
- `lib/hedera/topic.ts` – exposes `createTopic()` and `submitTopicMessage()` with message size validation and transaction metadata.
- `lib/hedera/publisher.ts` – `publishCustodyEvent()` serialises a `CustodyEventPayload`, submits it, and returns the SHA-256 payload hash plus Hedera receipt fields for persistence.
- `lib/hedera/mirror.ts` & `lib/hedera/timeline.ts` – fetch and decode Mirror Node topic messages, returning structured custody timeline entries and `links.next` pagination data.
- Example snippets under `lib/hedera/examples/*` mirror the official Hedera docs for topic creation, message submission, and HTS token setup.

**Publishing an event**

```ts
import { publishCustodyEvent } from "@/lib/hedera";

const result = await publishCustodyEvent({
  payload: {
    v: 1,
    type: "HANDOVER",
    batch: { gtin: "09506000134352", lot: "A123", exp: "2025-12-31" },
    actor: { facilityId: "fac_123", role: "DISTRIBUTOR" },
    to: { facilityId: "fac_987" },
    ts: new Date().toISOString(),
    prev: null,
  },
});

// Persist to Postgres
// result.payloadHash -> events.payload_hash
// result.transactionId -> events.hcs_tx_id
// result.sequenceNumber -> events.hcs_seq_no
// result.runningHash -> events.hcs_running_hash
```

**Reading the custody timeline**

```ts
import { fetchCustodyTimeline } from "@/lib/hedera";

const timeline = await fetchCustodyTimeline(process.env.HEDERA_TOPIC_ID!, {
  limit: 25,
  order: "desc",
});

timeline.entries.forEach((entry) => {
  console.log(entry.sequenceNumber, entry.type, entry.consensusTimestamp);
});
```

## Getting Started

1. **Install dependencies**
   ```bash
   npm install
   ```

2. **Configure environment variables**
   - Copy `.env.example` to `.env.local` and fill in project-specific values.
   - Required keys: `NEXT_PUBLIC_SUPABASE_URL`, `NEXT_PUBLIC_SUPABASE_ANON_KEY`, `SUPABASE_SERVICE_ROLE_KEY`.
   - Optional integrations: Twilio (`TWILIO_ACCOUNT_SID`, `TWILIO_AUTH_TOKEN`, `TWILIO_FROM_NUMBER`) and Africa's Talking (`AT_API_KEY`, `AT_USERNAME`).

3. **Apply database schema**
   - Run the SQL migrations under `supabase/migrations` (`000_init.sql`, `001_add_product_name_to_batches.sql`, etc.) against your Supabase project (`supabase db push` or Supabase Studio SQL editor).

4. **Start the dev server**
   ```bash
   npm run dev
   ```
   Visit `http://localhost:3000` to access the marketing site. Navigate to `/login` to authenticate.

5. **Type safety and linting**
   ```bash
   npm run lint
   npm run typecheck
   ```

## Auth & Routing

- `/login` shares the Supabase password flow with `/auth/login` for compatibility with email links.
- `/auth/*` still hosts Supabase confirm, reset, and update routes required for OTP/password flows.
- Middleware redirects unauthenticated requests to `/login` while letting `/verify` remain public for patient lookups.

## Dashboard Overview

- Stats cards summarise batch, event, and active receipt counts.
- Facility profile section surfaces GS1 prefix, type, and onboarding timestamp.
- Recent batches and custody events lists pull live data subject to RLS filters.
- Quick links point operators toward `/batches/new` when no inventory exists yet.

## Custody Scanner

- `/scan` renders the `ScannerClient`, combining the progressive `useScanner` hook (BarcodeDetector primary, ZXing fallback) with Supabase lookups.
- The facility directory loads from `/api/facilities`, giving operators a searchable destination list with manual overrides for auditors.
- Custody actions invoke `/api/events` to persist `RECEIVED`, `HANDOVER`, and `DISPENSED` hops, returning Hedera metadata and SHA-256 payload hashes for audit surfaces.

## Batch Labeling

- `/batches/new` collects product name, GTIN, lot, expiry, and quantity, validating inputs with `lib/labels/gs1`.
- Live previews render GS1 DataMatrix barcodes via `bwip-js/browser` with download and print actions for production labels.
- Successful submissions persist GTIN-14, lot, expiry, quantity, human-readable label text, and product name to Supabase while scoping ownership to the operator’s facility.

## Scripts

- `npm run dev` – development server.
- `npm run build` – production build.
- `npm start` – start the production server.
- `npm run lint` – eslint quality checks.
- `npm run typecheck` – TypeScript without emit (required before merging).
- `npm run seed:demo` – provision demo facilities, accounts, batches, events, and receipts in Supabase (requires service role key).

## Demo data & credentials

Run the seeding script once your Supabase project is configured:

```bash
npm run seed:demo
```

The script reads `.env.local`, creates facilities for the manufacturer, distributor, pharmacy, and auditor personas, and loads two batches with full custody histories. By default the password is `TraceDemo!24`; override it by setting `DEMO_SEED_PASSWORD` before running the script.

Demo logins after seeding:

- Manufacturer admin – `manufacturer@packtrace.app`
- Distributor operator – `distributor@packtrace.app`
- Pharmacy technician – `pharmacy@packtrace.app`
- Auditor reviewer – `auditor@packtrace.app`

Each account uses the shared demo password (or the override you provided) and can be rotated safely by re-running the script.

## Reference Links

- Hedera Consensus Service: [submit a message](https://docs.hedera.com/hedera/sdks-and-apis/sdks/consensus-service/submit-a-message)
- Hedera Mirror Node: [topics REST API](https://docs.hedera.com/hedera/sdks-and-apis/rest-api/topics)
- GS1 DataMatrix guideline: [PDF](https://www.gs1.org/docs/barcodes/GS1_DataMatrix_Guideline.pdf)
- Supabase Next.js quickstart: [guide](https://supabase.com/docs/guides/getting-started/quickstarts/nextjs)
